But he bought only stale bread as before. Never a cake, never a
pie, never one of her delicious sweets.
She thought he began to look thinner and discouraged. Her
heart wished to add something good to eat to his meagre
purchase. But she did not dare affront him. She knew the pride
of artists.
Miss Martha began to wear her new blue silk dress. She also
began to use some cream in order to make her face a little more
beautiful.
One day the customer came in as usual, laid his nickel17 on
the showcase, and asked for his stale loaves. While Miss Martha
was getting them there from the shelf, the siren of a fire-engine
was heard.
The customer hurried to the door to look. Miss Martha seized
the opportunity.
On the bottom shelf behind the counter was a pound of fresh
butter that the dairyman had left ten minutes before. With a
bread knife Miss Martha made a deep cut in each of the stale
loaves, inserted a big piece of butter, and pressed the loaves tight
again.
When the customer turned from the door, she was tying the
paper around them.
When he had gone, after an unusually pleasant little chat, Miss
Martha smiled to herself.
She was thinking about her deed. Had she the right to do such
a thing? Will he feel offended? But surely not. That’s just butter,
nothing more.
She imagined the scene when he discovers her little deception.
He will lay down his brushes and palette. He will prepare for
his luncheon of dry bread and water. He will cut into a loaf – ah!
Miss Martha blushed. Will he think of the hand that placed
the butter in the bread? Will he —
The front door bell jangled viciously. Somebody was coming
in, making a great deal of noise.
Miss Martha hurried to the door. Two men were there. One
was a young man smoking a pipe – a man she had never seen
before. The other was her artist.
His face was very red, his hat was on the back of his head. He
clinched his two fists and shook them ferociously at Miss Martha.
At Miss Martha!
“Dummkopf18!” he shouted with extreme loudness; and then
“Tausendonfer19!” or something like it in German.
The young man tried to draw him away.
“I will not go,” he said angrily. “You haf shpoilt me20,” he
cried, his blue eyes blazing behind his spectacles. “I will tell
you21. You vas von meddingsome old cat!22”